+++
title = "Robust analysis of allele-specific copy number alterations from scRNA-seq data with XClone"
date = 2025-07-06T01:15:09-07:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Huang, Rongting**", "Huang, Xianjie",  "Tong, Yin", "Yan, Helen YN", "Leung, Suet Yi", "Stegle, Oliver", "Huang, Yuanhua"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "_Nature Communications_"
publication_short = "Nat. Commun."

# Abstract.
abstract = "Somatic copy number alterations (CNAs) are major mutations that contribute to the development and progression of various cancers. Despite a few computational methods proposed to detect CNAs from single-cell transcriptomic data, the technical sparsity of such data makes it challenging to identify allele-specific CNAs, particularly in complex clonal structures. In this study, we present a statistical method, XClone, that strengthens the signals of read depth and allelic imbalance by effective smoothing on cell neighborhood and gene coordinate graphs to detect haplotype-aware CNAs from scRNA-seq data. By applying XClone to multiple datasets with challenging compositions, we demonstrated its ability to robustly detect different types of allele-specific CNAs and potentially indicate whole genome duplication, therefore enabling the discovery of corresponding subclones and the dissection of their phenotypic impacts."

# Summary. An optional shortened abstract.
summary = "XClone is an algorithm to infer allele- and haplotype-specific copy numbers in individual cells from low-coverage and sparse single-cell RNA sequencing data (e.g., those generated by 10x Genomics, Smart-seq, etc.)"

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1038/s41467-024-51026-0"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = true

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Singel Cell", "CNV", "Genomics", "Research"]

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["XClone"]

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this page with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Links (optional).
#url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-51026-0"
#url_preprint = "https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.04.03.535352v3"
url_code = "https://github.com/single-cell-genetics/XClone"
url_dataset = "https://github.com/Rongtingting/xclone-data"
url_project = ""
#url_slides = "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-51026-0"
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""

+++
